


U.S. Geological Survey                                  swstat(1)



NAME
     swstat - Surface-water statistics

ABSTRACT
     SWSTAT contains a number of options for statistically
     analyzing time-series data.  The time-series data are read
     from a Watershed Data Management (WDM) file.  The computed
     statistics and (or) time series can be written back to the
     WDM file or to a text file.  The statistics options include:

     Basic       Computes minimum, maximum, mean, and standard
                 deviation of a time series (any time step).

     Compare     Uses flow-duration analysis and class intervals
                 to compute absolute error, root mean square
                 error, and bias by class interval for two time
                 series.  The standard error of estimate is
                 computed.  The flow-durations curves can be
                 plotted.  Data may be any time step.

     Duration    Performs traditional flow-duration analysis by
                 counting occurrences of all time-series values
                 within flow intervals.  The duration curve can
                 be plotted.  Data are analyzed at a daily time
                 step.

     Frequency   Analyzes time series using log-Pearson Type III
                 distribution, without the extra features of
                 Bulletin 17B found in the PEAKFQ program.  The
                 distribution is fitted by method of moments.
                 Based on the USGS A193 WATSTORE program.  Data
                 are read from time-series data sets and analyzed
                 at an annual time step.

     Hydrograph  Computes duration hydrograph tables and curves.
                 Based on the USGS K956 WATSTORE program.  The
                 duration hydrograph curves may be plotted.  Data
                 are analyzed at a daily time step.  Although
                 originally developed for streamflow data, any
                 time series may be analyzed.

     N-day       Computes annual n-day high and (or) low flows
                 from a daily time series.  A default set of 1-,
                 2-, 3-, 7-, 10-, 30-, 60-, 90-, 183-, and
                 365-day periods can be selected, or up to 10
                 durations may be specified.  Analysis may be
                 over a calendar year, water year, or a season.
                 Based on the USGS A969 WATSTORE program.

     Trend       Tests annual time series for trends.  Computes
                 Kendall's tau, the associated p-level and the
                 slope of the trend line.  The p-level is the



                  Last change: 25 February 2002                 1






U.S. Geological Survey                                  swstat(1)



                 attained (two-sided) significance level of the
                 test.  The data may be read from a time-series
                 data set or from a table data set.

METHOD
     Standard textbook procedures are used.  The log-Pearson Type
     III and Pearson Type III distributions are fit using the
     method of moments.  The Kendall Tau procedure is used for
     trend analysis.  Class intervals used for flow-duration and
     comparison analysis are created as uniform log units or are
     user defined.

HISTORY
     Some of the options in the program were originally
     implemented as programs in the WATSTORE system. These
     procedures were included under the statistics option in the
     1990 version of the ANNIE program.  In 1993, the software
     was ported to the UNIX platform, the user interface was
     enhanced, and the statistics options were removed from the
     ANNIE program and placed into the SWSTAT program.

     Version 4.1 2002/02/25 - Corrections in the N-day
        computations and in the specification for minimum and
        maximum values for plots with probability axis.
        Corrected problems in Frequency option where data set did
        not contain season attributes or a recognized value for
        TSTYPE.  In the Frequency option, added the 3-year
        recurrence to the printed table and added attributes
        L07050, L07100, and L04003 for optional WDM output.  In
        Frequency option, corrected problem where negative
        Parameter Values were sometimes reported for low flows.
        Miscellaneous spelling corrections.

     Version 4.0 2000/12/01 - All WDM data sets now contain the
        date the data set was created and the date the data set
        was last modified.  Attributes SEADBG and SEADND
        introduced with version 3.2 of SWSTAT are in conflict
        with the creation and modification attributes.  If you
        have N-day data sets created with Version 3.2 of SWSTAT,
        you will need to run the WDMRX program to resolve this
        conflict.  WDMRX is included in the bin directory of the
        SWSTAT distribution.  The N-day option was modified to
        rank high flow values in descending order.

     Version 3.2 1998/03/09 - Updated to incorporate corrections
        and changes made in the swstat program and in the lib
        library; there are four noteworthy changes.  (1) The
        compare option had been reporting incorrect values for
        the total mean absolute error (percent) and root mean
        square error (percent); this is fixed.  (2) In some
        instances, the common time period that was determined by
        the software may actually have been shorter than the



                  Last change: 25 February 2002                 2






U.S. Geological Survey                                  swstat(1)



        actual common time period; this has been corrected.  (3)
        The n-day option now includes the option to compute
        duration for one or more months.  (4) The n-day option
        now includes the option to compute seasonal durations
        that begin or (and) end on days other than the first and
        last, respectively, of the months.

     Version 3.1 1996/09/25 - Corrections made in the Hydrograph
        option.  February 29, leap day, was not being correctly
        handled during leap years--the value for February 29 was
        used for February 28.  The program now skips February 29.
        The number of data values tagged as missing is now being
        correctly computed.

     Version 3.0 1996/03/26 - New release of program.  Includes
        addition of the duration hydrograph (DURHYD) program as
        the Hydrograph option in SWSTAT.  Corrections were made
        in the n-day option so that the correct year was reported
        for seasons shorter than a year.

     Version 2.1 1994/06/28 - Corrections made in the n-day
        option.  The seasons the user entered were not being used
        for the high- and (or) low-flow computations.  The
        program was always using the full climate year for low
        flows and the water year for high flows.  Both low and
        high flows were always being calculated.  The program now
        recognizes the seasons requested by the user and also
        that the user may not want both high and low flows.  The
        user may now enter different durations for the low and
        the high flows.

DATA REQUIREMENTS
     Input comes from WDM files.

OUTPUT OPTIONS
     Statistical output can be placed in a text output file or
     stored on the user's WDM file in addition to being viewed on
     the screen.  The graphs produced in the flow-duration and
     frequency analyses meet USGS publication standards and can
     be viewed on the screen.  Additional plot output options
     depend on the devices supported by the GKS library used and
     may include PostScript, Computer Graphics Metafile (CGM),
     Hewlett-Packard Graphics Language (HP-GL), and assorted
     printers and plotters.  See the installation instructions
     (README.TXT) for details of output devices available with
     precompiled distributions of the program.

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
     SWSTAT is written in Fortran 77 with the following
     extension: use of include files.  The ANN, WAIDE, AWSTAT,
     GRAPH, STATS, AIDE, WDM, ADWDM, and UTIL libraries from
     LIBANNE are required to recompile.  For more information,



                  Last change: 25 February 2002                 3






U.S. Geological Survey                                  swstat(1)



     see System Requirements in LIBANNE.

APPLICATIONS
     There have been hundreds of applications throughout the
     United States and published as State or regional high- or
     low-flow frequency reports.

DOCUMENTATION
     Lumb, A.M., Kittle, J.L., Jr., and Flynn, K.M., 1990, Users
        manual for ANNIE, a computer program for interactive
        hydrologic analyses and data management: U.S. Geological
        Survey Water-Resources Investigations Report 89-4080, 236
        p.  (Documents the 1990 version included in the ANNIE
        program.)

RELATED DOCUMENTATION
     Flynn, K.M., Hummel, P.R., Lumb, A.M., and Kittle, J.L.,
        Jr., 1995, User's manual for ANNIE, version 2, a computer
        program for interactive hydrologic data management:  U.S.
        Geological Survey Water-Resources Investigations Report
        95-4085, 211 p.

REFERENCES
     Arihood, L.D., and Glatfelter, D.R., 1991, Method for
        estimating low-flow characteristics of ungaged streams in
        Indiana:  U.S. Geological Survey Water-Supply Paper 2372.

     Bingham, R.H., 1985, Low flows and flow duration of
        Tennessee streams through 1981:  U.S. Geological Survey
        Water-Resources Investigations Report 84-4347.

     Bingham, R.H., 1986, Regionalization of low-flow
        characteristics of Tennessee streams:  U.S. Geological
        Survey Water-Resources Investigations Report 85-4191.

     Giese, G.L., and Mason, R.R., 1990, Low-flow frequency
        characteristics of streams in North Carolina:  U.S.
        Geological Survey Open-File Report 90-399.

     Hayes, D.C., 1991, Low-flow characteristics of streams in
        Virginia: U.S. Geological Survey Water-Supply Paper 2374.

     Ludwig, A.H., 1992, Flow duration and low-flow
        characteristics of selected Arkansas streams:  U.S.
        Geological Survey Water-Resources Investigations Report
        92-4026, 77 p.

     Ruhl, K.J., and Martin, G.R., 1991, Low-flow characteristics
        of Kentucky streams:  U.S. Geological Survey Water-
        Resources Investigations Report 91-4097, 51 p.





                  Last change: 25 February 2002                 4






U.S. Geological Survey                                  swstat(1)



     Telis, P.A., 1991, Low-flow and flow-duration
        characteristics of Mississippi streams:  U.S. Geological
        Survey Water-Resources Investigations Report 90-4087, 214
        p.

TRAINING
     Statistical Approach to Surface-Water Hydrologic Analysis
     (SW2011TC), offered annually at the USGS National Training
     Center.

CONTACTS
     Operation and Distribution:
        U.S. Geological Survey
        Hydrologic Analysis Software Support Program
        437 National Center
        Reston, VA 20192

        h2osoft@usgs.gov

     Official versions of U.S. Geological Survey water-resources
     analysis software are available for electronic retrieval via
     the World Wide Web (WWW) at:

                http://water.usgs.gov/software/

     and via anonymous File Transfer Protocol (FTP) from:

                water.usgs.gov (path: /pub/software).

     The WWW page and anonymous FTP directory from which the
     SWSTAT software can be retrieved are, respectively:

                http://water.usgs.gov/software/swstat.html
                              --and--
                /pub/software/surface_water/swstat

     See
     http://water.usgs.gov/software/ordering_documentation.html
     for information on ordering printed copies of USGS
     publications.

SEE ALSO
     annie(1) - Program to list, table, plot data in a WDM file

     glsnet(1) - Regional hydrologic regression and network
                 analysis using generalized least squares

     hass-cui(1) - Character-based user interface

     iowdm(1) - Program to store time-series data in a WDM file





                  Last change: 25 February 2002                 5






U.S. Geological Survey                                  swstat(1)



     wdm(1) - Watershed Data Management system






















































                  Last change: 25 February 2002                 6



