
 Version    Date    Description
 -------  --------  ---------------------------------------------------------
   4.1    02/02/25  Made corrections in the N-day computations and in the
                    specification for minimum and maximum values for
                    plots with probablility axis.  Corrected problems in
                    Frequency option where data set did not contain season
                    attributes or a recognized value for TSTYPE.  In the
                    Frequency option, added the 3-year recurrence to the
                    printed table and added attributes L07050, L07100, and
                    L04003 for optional WDM output.  In Frequency option,
                    corrected problem where negative Parameter Values were
                    sometimes reported for low flows.  Miscellaneous
                    spelling corrections.

                    N-day option was incorrectly retrieving seasons of
                    data when the start date of the input data set was
                    not on a month boundary.  For instance, if the start
                    date in a data set was the 6th of March, and the
                    season was the December 1 - March 31, the program
                    was incorrectly retrieving the season December 6 -
                    April 5.

                    Although version 4.0 claimed the N-day option ranked
                    low flows with the smallest being 1 and the largest
                    being last and ranked high flows with the highest
                    being 1 and the lowest being the last, the reverse
                    was true.  The output now correctly reports rank for
                    high flows in descending order, with the largest flow
                    ranked 1 and the smallest flow ranked last.  Low
                    flows are now correctly ranked in ascending order
                    with the smallest flow ranked 1 and the largest flow
                    ranked last.

                    The program will automatically force user-specified
                    limits for probablility axis to be symetrical about
                    0, with the maximum value equal to the maximum of
                    the absolute values of minimum and maximum and the
                    minimum the negative of the maximum.

                    For the frequency option, program will ask user to
                    define the season being analyzed if the attributes
                    SEASBG and SEASND are missing and will, optionally,
                    write the values to the data set.  If the attribute
                    TSTYPE contains the string PEAK, the program will
                    assume the annual series being identified is a
                    1-day High flow.  If the value of TSTYPE is not
                    PEAK and does not contain H or L in the first position
                    followed by 3 digits identifying the duration, the
                    user will be asked to specify the information.
                    
   4.0    00/12/01  In version 3.2, 2 new attributes were introduced.
                    They are used by the n-day option.  SEADBG (443)
                    is the starting day of a season and SEADND (444)
                    is the ending day of a season.  They are used in
                    combination with SEASBG AND SEASND.  The index
                    numbers used for these attributes conflicted with
                    attributes DATCRE and DATMOD which were added for
                    another applicatin to document the dates a data set
                    was created and last modified, respectively.  The
                    index numbers for SEADBG and SEADND are now 446
                    and 447.  If you have wdm files that were created
                    using version 3.2 of swstat, you will need to run
                    the wdmrx program to correct these attributes before
                    you use any other applications to analyze the data
                    sets (wdmrx is included in the annie distribution,
                    see http://water.usgs.gov/software/annie.html)

                    Modified Trend option.  The code had been using
                    the attributes J407BY and J407EY, if they were
                    present, as the begin and end dates for the analysis.

                    N-day option has been ranking both high and low
                    flow values in ascending order.  Output now reports
                    rank for high flows in descending order, with the
                    largest flow ranked 1 and the smallest flow ranked
                    last.  Low flows continue to be ranked in ascending
                    order with the smallest flow ranked 1 and the largest
                    flow ranked last.

                    Corrected problem in hydrograph option that caused
                    leap years to be incorrectly identified.  Also
                    corrected problem with the fill pattern for the
                    graphics.

                    Duplicate code has been replaced with calls to
                    library routines.  Some code has been rearranged
                    and some routines were moved to libanne.


   3.2    98/03/25  Corrected Compare option to correctly compute the
                    total mean absolute error (percent) and root mean
                    square error (percent).  Enhanced N-day option to
                    include option to compute durations of 31 or less
                    for months.  Also enhanced N-day option to compute
                    durations for seasons that begin and (or) end on
                    days other than the first and last days of the month.
                    Corrected log files distributed with the PC version
                    for the tests that included graphics.  Modified
                    test4.log file and added test10.log for the
                    enhancements under the N-day option.  Incorporated
                    corrections and changes made in the lib library;
                    there is 1 noteworthy change:  in some instances,
                    the common time period determined by the software
                    may have been shorter than the actual time period;
                    this has been corrected.

                    NOTE that the N-day printed output has been
                         modified.  The previous release computed and
                         printed the low flows for all selected data
                         sets and then the high flows for all selected
                         data sets.  With this release, the program now
                         computes and prints the low and high flows
                         by station.

   3.1    96/09/25  The Hydrograph duration statistics option was found
                    to have some errors related to handling February 29.
                    In some cases these caused the program to crash, in
                    other cases it caused the program to produce some
                    incorrect values for February 28  (February 29 was
                    being used instead of February 28.)  The number of
                    values tagged as missing was also being incorrectly
                    reported in some cases.  In correcting the program,
                    several other features of this option have been
                    modified, including: (1) better default limits for
                    y-axis in plotting, (2) added period of record
                    being analyzed to output table and plot, (3) changed
                    order of input fields in the Modify form fill in and
                    added data transformation field, and (4) changed the
                    Analyze form fill in for specifying dates.

                    NOTE that in ALL cases, February 29 is not included
                         in the analysis.

                    NOTE that the date printed in the output table and
                         included on the plot will be exactly the start
                         and end dates you specify for the period of
                         record.  If either of these dates falls outside
                         the begin and end months for the season you have
                         specified, the date printed will be the specified
                         date, not the start and end of the season.

   3.0    95/08/29  Moved durhyd program into swstat.

          96/03/26  The N-day option did not always report the correct year
                    for seasons shorter than a year.  In particular, the
                    reported year was in error (the next year) and a value
                    for the last requested year was not reported if a season
                    was a single month.  This has been corrected.

                    NOTE that in ALL cases, the year reported is the
                         year that corresponds to the ending month of
                         the season.  For example, the climatic year
                         beginning April 1994 and ending March 1995
                         will be reported as year 1995 and the water
                         year beginning October 1994 and ending in
                         September 1995 will be reported as year 1995.

                    NOTE also that when stored in a wdm file, annual
                         time series are always listed as beginning in
                         January and ending in December.  However, the
                         attributes SEASBG and SEASND will be stored in
                         the data set recording the actual season that
                         the time series was computed for.  As noted
                         above, the year is the year the ending month
                         of the season occured in.

   2.2    94/11/01  Corrections made in the Basic and Frequency options.

                    The Basic option was not listing the correct minimum
                    value in the data set if the minimum was the first value
                    in the data set.  There was also an error in the way
                    the variance was being computed, which may have caused
                    an error in the standard deviation (generally very small).

                    In some cases in the Frequency analysis, the n-day, t-year
                    statistics values were being computed as 10e-31 when they
                    should have been zero.  This has been corrected.

   2.1    94/06/28  Corrections made in the N-day option.

                    The seasons the user entered were not being used for the
                    high- and/or low- flow computations.  The program was
                    always using the full climate year for low flows and the
                    water year for high flows.  Both low and high flows were
                    always being calculated.   The program now recognizes
                    the seasons requested by the user and also that the
                    user may not want both high and low flows.  The user
                    may now enter different durations for the low and the
                    high flows.  (KMFlynn)

